= Log4r-XMPP

== Description

Log4r-XMPP adds a XMPP/Jabber outputter to Log4r.

== Requirements

The following gems are required to use Log4r-XMPP:

* log4r
* xmpp4r (http://home.gna.org/xmpp4r)

== Caveats

* Do NOT include Log4r into your namespace! XMPP4r uses the generic Logger
  library and would become present in your namespace.

* If using the XMPPOutputter to log messages from the internal logger named
  'xmpp4r' be sure to set the level of XMPPOutputter above DEBUG.

== Using Log4r-XMPP

Requiring 'log4r-xmpp' will add an XMPPOutputter to Log4r. It is as simple as
using any other Log4r::Outputter and can use most formatters in addition to the
default.

===Options:

 :buffsize   => The number of logging events to buffer before sending (default 1)
 :username   => Sending user's XMPP/Jabber account username
 :password   => Sending user's XMPP/Jabber account password
 :resource   => Optional sending user's XMPP/Jabber resource (default 'Log4r')
 :recipients => An array of accounts to send Log4r log statements to

===Example:

    require 'log4r-xmpp'

    options = { :buffsize   => 10,
                :username   => 'log4r@example.com',
                :password   => 'secret',
                :resource   => 'Log4r',
                :recipients => ['recipient1@example.com', 'recipient2@example.com']
              }

    outputter = Log4r::XMPPOutputter.new('xmpp', options)

    mylog = Log4r::Logger.new 'mylog'
    mylog.outputters = outputter

    mylog.debug "This is a test message sent at level DEBUG"

== Using Log4r-XMPP with Log4r::YamlConfigurator

Requiring 'log4r-xmpp/yamlconfigurator' will patch Log4r::YamlConfigurator to
accept an array list of recipients. Substitutions are still taken into
consideration.

===Example YAML:

    ---
    # *** YAML2LOG4R ***
    log4r_config:
      # define all loggers ...
      loggers:
        - name      : mylog
          level     : DEBUG
          trace     : 'false'
          outputters:
            - xmpp

      # define all outputters (incl. formatters)
      outputters:
        - type        : XMPPOutputter
          name        : 'xmpp'
          buffsize    : '10'
          username    : 'log4r@localhost'
          password    : 'secret'
          resource    : "#{RESOURCE}"
          recipients  : ["user1@#{DOMAIN}", "user2@#{DOMAIN}"]
          formatter   :
            date_pattern: '%y%m%d %H:%M:%S'
            pattern     : '%d %l: %m'
            type        : PatternFormatter

===Example Loading:

    require 'log4r-xmpp'
    require 'log4r-xmpp/yamlconfigurator'

    path = File.dirname(__FILE__)

    Log4r::YamlConfigurator['RESOURCE'] = 'Log4r-XMPP'
    Log4r::YamlConfigurator['DOMAIN']   = 'localhost'

    Log4r::YamlConfigurator.load_yaml_file("#{path}/log4r-xmpp.yaml")

    mylog = Log4r::Logger['mylog']

    mylog.debug "This is a test message sent at level DEBUG"

== Troubleshooting

XMPP4r's logger facility is setup by default to log to an internal logger
named 'xmpp4r'. Attach an outputter to view additional debug information. See the
caveat above if you are considering logging XMPP4r messages through
XMPPOutputter.
